# Railway-Management-System
# Introduction 
The main purpose of maintaining database Project for Railway management System is to decrease the manual errors involved in the booking and cancelling of tickets and make it convenient for the customers and providers to maintain the data about their customers and also about the seats available at them. Due to this, sometimes a lot of problems occur and they are facing many disputes with customers. To solve the above problem, we design a data base which includes customer details, availability of seats in trains, no of trains and their details.  
This project is about creating the database about Railway management System. The railway management system facilitates the passengers to ask about the trains available on the basis of source and destination, booking and cancellation of tickets, ask about the status of the booked ticket, etc. The record of train consist of its number, name, source, destination, and days on which it is available, whereas record of train status includes dates for which tickets can be booked, total number of seats available, and number of seats already booked. Passengers can book their tickets for the train in which seats are available. For this, passenger has to provide the desired train number and the date for which ticket is to be booked. Before booking a ticket for a passenger, the validity of train number and booking date is checked. Once the train number and booking date are authenticated, it is checked whether the seat is available. If yes, the ticket is booked with confirm status and corresponding ticket ID is generated which is stored along with other information of the passenger. The ticket once booked can be cancelled at any time. For this, the passenger has to provide the ticket ID (the unique key). The ticket ID is searched and the matching record is deleted. With this, the first ticket with waiting status also gets confirmed. The railway management system database project can help in the maintenance of the railway-related information easily. The project can help in storing train name, railway track, destination, departure, arrival, etc. of the train easily. All the information is easily available through this application with great ease. The users can also have an opportunity of booking the tickets through the online mode. The easy management of the tickets is possible through this application 
Then this project contains entity relationship model diagram based on railway management system and introduction to relation model Example of some SQL queries to retrieves data from railway management database.
